src/main/resources/asciidoc/hcl.adoc, before:

<<TerraformScanner>>
[[TerraformScanner]]

== Scanner for Terraform files

=== Configuration parameters
None

=== :Terraform
Represents the properties which all nodes have in common.

.Properties of :Terraform
[options="header"]
|====
| Name              | Description
| fullQualifiedName | An unique identifier for the object.
| internalName      | An internal name for the object which is not unique, e.g. the ressource name or variable name.
|====

=== :Terraform:Block
Just a tagging label which represents all objects which can be created with Terraform.

=== :Terraform:Configuration
Represents the Terraform configuration settings. A detailed description can be found at https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/terraform.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:Configuration
[options="header"]
|====
| Name              | Description
| backend           | The backend used.
| experiments       | Names the experimental language features.
| providerMeta      | The data passed to the providers, if supported.
| requiredProviders | Version constraints for the providers used.
| requiredVersion   | A version constraint string which specifies the Terraform version of the binary.
|====

=== :Terraform:File
Represents a source file in the file system containing Terraform instructions.

.Relations of :Terraform:File
[options="header"]
|====
| Name         | Target label(s)              | Cardinality | Description
| REFERENCES   | <<:Terraform:Block>>         | 0..n        | References all objects defined in the file.
| BELONGS_TO   | <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>> | n..1        | References the logical module this file belongs to.
|====

=== :Terraform:InputVariable
Represents an input variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/variables.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:InputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name                   | Description
| default                | The default value of the variable if any.
| description            | The purpose of the variable. 
| name                   | The name of the variable.
| type                   | A type constraint to limit the valid values, e.g. `string` or `number`.
| validationErrorMessage | The validation error message from the included `validation` block.
| validationRule         | The validation rule from the included `validation` block.
|====

=== :Terraform:LogicalModule
Makes a Terraform module explicit. In Terraform modules are comprised
of many source files and the module structure is represented by the
directory structure on the file system.

.Relations of :Terraform:LogicalModule
[options="header"]
|====
| Name                      | Target label(s)                     | Cardinality | Description
| CALLS                     | <<:Terraform:Module>>               | 1..n        | References all modules called (included via `module` instruction)
| CONFIGURES_TERRAFORM_WITH | <<:Terraform:Configuration>>        | 1..n        | References Terraform configuration blocks.
| CREATES_RESOURCES         | <<:Terraform:ProviderResource>>     | 1..n        | References resources managed by Terraform.
| CREATES_RESOURCES_VIA     | <<:Terraform:Provider>>             | 1..n        | References providers used.
| DECLARES_INPUT_VARIABLE   | <<:Terraform:InputVariable>>        | 1..n        | References the input variables of the module.
| DECLARES_LOCAL_VARIABLE   | <<:Terraform:LocalVariable>>        | 1..n        | References the local variables of the module.
| DECLARES_OUTPUT_VARIABLE  | <<:Terraform:OutputVariable>>       | 1..n        | References the output variables of the module.
| READS_RESOURCES           | <<:Terraform:ProviderDataResource>> | 1..n        | References read-only resources managed by Terraform.
|====

=== :Terraform:LocalVariable
Represents a local variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/locals.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:LocalVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name        | Description
| name        | The name of the variable.
| value       | The value of the variable.    
|====

=== :Terraform:Module
Represents the `module` instruction to include (call) other Terraform modules. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/modules.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:Module
[options="header"]
|====
| Name      | Description
| count     | Used to include the module multiple times. Usually a number.
| forEach   | Can be used instead of `count` to iterate over a set.
| providers | An explicit provider definition exclusively for this module. 
| source    | The location of the included module, e.g. reference to a git repository or local directory.
| version   | The version of the module which is accepted.    
|====

All input variables of the called module are added as properties.

.Relations of :Terraform:Module
[options="header"]
|====
| Name            | Target label(s)              | Cardinality | Description
| DEPENDS_ON      | <<:Terraform:Block>>         | 1..n        | The list of explicitly named dependencies from the `depends_on`property.
| IS_SOURCED_FROM | <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>> | n..1        | References the called module.
|====

=== :Terraform:OutputVariable
Represents an output variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/outputs.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:OutputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name        | Description
| description | The purpose of the variable.
| name        | The name of the variable.
| sensitive   | If the value will be shown in the terraform output or not 
| type        | Indicates the type of the variable, e.g. `string` or `number`.
| value       | References the attribute of a <<:Terraform:ProviderResource>> which is returned. Might also contain function calls and multiple resource references.    
|====

.Relations of :Terraform:OutputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name       | Target label(s)      | Cardinality | Description
| DEPENDS_ON | <<:Terraform:Block>> | 1..n        | The list of explicitly named dependencies from the `depends_on`property.
|====

=== :Terraform:Provider
A provider which is used to modify the managed Terraform objects. It inherits all properties
from the Terraform configuration language, e.g. `region` for the `provider "aws" {...}`.
See https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html[Provider Configuration].

=== :Terraform:ProviderDataResource
Represents a read-only object managed by Terraform. Check the provider
documentation for details, e.g. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs[for AWS].

.Properties of :Terraform:ProviderDataResource
[options="header"]
|====
| Name     | Description
| name     | Name of the resource.
| provider | The purpose of the variable.
| type     | The resource type, e.g. `aws_db_instance`.
|====

All properties of the provider resource are added as properties.

=== :Terraform:ProviderResource
Represents an object managed by Terraform and modified by a provider. Check the provider
documentation for details, e.g. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs[for AWS].

.Properties of :Terraform:ProviderResource
[options="header"]
|====
| Name     | Description
| name     | Name of the resource.
| provider | The purpose of the variable.
| type     | The resource type, e.g. `aws_db_instance`.
|====

All properties of the provider resource are added as properties.

Commit message:

Improve TerraformLogicalModule (#20)
* Add test to check the full qualified name of called modules

* Fix the full qualified name of called modules

* Create LogicalModule for modules on local file system only

* Add documentation

src/main/resources/asciidoc/hcl.adoc, after:

<<TerraformScanner>>
[[TerraformScanner]]

== Scanner for Terraform files
Scans HCL files on the local file system. References to modules which are not present on the local file system are
not scanned.

=== Configuration parameters
None

=== :Terraform
Represents the properties which all nodes have in common.

.Properties of :Terraform
[options="header"]
|====
| Name              | Description
| fullQualifiedName | An unique identifier for the object.
| internalName      | An internal name for the object which is not unique, e.g. the ressource name or variable name.
|====

=== :Terraform:Block
Just a tagging label which represents all objects which can be created with Terraform.

=== :Terraform:Configuration
Represents the Terraform configuration settings. A detailed description can be found at https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/terraform.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:Configuration
[options="header"]
|====
| Name              | Description
| backend           | The backend used.
| experiments       | Names the experimental language features.
| providerMeta      | The data passed to the providers, if supported.
| requiredProviders | Version constraints for the providers used.
| requiredVersion   | A version constraint string which specifies the Terraform version of the binary.
|====

=== :Terraform:File
Represents a source file in the file system containing Terraform instructions.

.Relations of :Terraform:File
[options="header"]
|====
| Name         | Target label(s)              | Cardinality | Description
| REFERENCES   | <<:Terraform:Block>>         | 0..n        | References all objects defined in the file.
| BELONGS_TO   | <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>> | n..1        | References the logical module this file belongs to.
|====

=== :Terraform:InputVariable
Represents an input variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/variables.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:InputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name                   | Description
| default                | The default value of the variable if any.
| description            | The purpose of the variable. 
| name                   | The name of the variable.
| type                   | A type constraint to limit the valid values, e.g. `string` or `number`.
| validationErrorMessage | The validation error message from the included `validation` block.
| validationRule         | The validation rule from the included `validation` block.
|====

=== :Terraform:LogicalModule
Makes a Terraform module explicit. In Terraform modules are comprised
of many source files and the module structure is represented by the
directory structure on the file system.

.Relations of :Terraform:LogicalModule
[options="header"]
|====
| Name                      | Target label(s)                     | Cardinality | Description
| CALLS                     | <<:Terraform:Module>>               | 1..n        | References all modules called (included via `module` instruction)
| CONFIGURES_TERRAFORM_WITH | <<:Terraform:Configuration>>        | 1..n        | References Terraform configuration blocks.
| CREATES_RESOURCES         | <<:Terraform:ProviderResource>>     | 1..n        | References resources managed by Terraform.
| CREATES_RESOURCES_VIA     | <<:Terraform:Provider>>             | 1..n        | References providers used.
| DECLARES_INPUT_VARIABLE   | <<:Terraform:InputVariable>>        | 1..n        | References the input variables of the module.
| DECLARES_LOCAL_VARIABLE   | <<:Terraform:LocalVariable>>        | 1..n        | References the local variables of the module.
| DECLARES_OUTPUT_VARIABLE  | <<:Terraform:OutputVariable>>       | 1..n        | References the output variables of the module.
| READS_RESOURCES           | <<:Terraform:ProviderDataResource>> | 1..n        | References read-only resources managed by Terraform.
|====

=== :Terraform:LocalVariable
Represents a local variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/locals.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:LocalVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name        | Description
| name        | The name of the variable.
| value       | The value of the variable.    
|====

=== :Terraform:Module
Represents the `module` instruction to include (call) other Terraform modules. See https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/modules.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:Module
[options="header"]
|====
| Name      | Description
| count     | Used to include the module multiple times. Usually a number.
| forEach   | Can be used instead of `count` to iterate over a set.
| providers | An explicit provider definition exclusively for this module. 
| source    | The location of the included module, e.g. reference to a git repository or local directory.
| version   | The version of the module which is accepted.    
|====

All input variables of the called module are added as properties.

.Relations of :Terraform:Module
[options="header"]
|====
| Name            | Target label(s)              | Cardinality | Description
| DEPENDS_ON      | <<:Terraform:Block>>         | 1..n        | The list of explicitly named dependencies from the `depends_on`property.
| IS_SOURCED_FROM | <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>> | n..1        | References the called module.
|====

=== :Terraform:OutputVariable
Represents an output variable of a <<:Terraform:LogicalModule>>. For details check https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/outputs.html.

.Properties of :Terraform:OutputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name        | Description
| description | The purpose of the variable.
| name        | The name of the variable.
| sensitive   | If the value will be shown in the terraform output or not 
| type        | Indicates the type of the variable, e.g. `string` or `number`.
| value       | References the attribute of a <<:Terraform:ProviderResource>> which is returned. Might also contain function calls and multiple resource references.    
|====

.Relations of :Terraform:OutputVariable
[options="header"]
|====
| Name       | Target label(s)      | Cardinality | Description
| DEPENDS_ON | <<:Terraform:Block>> | 1..n        | The list of explicitly named dependencies from the `depends_on`property.
|====

=== :Terraform:Provider
A provider which is used to modify the managed Terraform objects. It inherits all properties
from the Terraform configuration language, e.g. `region` for the `provider "aws" {...}`.
See https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html[Provider Configuration].

=== :Terraform:ProviderDataResource
Represents a read-only object managed by Terraform. Check the provider
documentation for details, e.g. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs[for AWS].

.Properties of :Terraform:ProviderDataResource
[options="header"]
|====
| Name     | Description
| name     | Name of the resource.
| provider | The purpose of the variable.
| type     | The resource type, e.g. `aws_db_instance`.
|====

All properties of the provider resource are added as properties.

=== :Terraform:ProviderResource
Represents an object managed by Terraform and modified by a provider. Check the provider
documentation for details, e.g. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs[for AWS].

.Properties of :Terraform:ProviderResource
[options="header"]
|====
| Name     | Description
| name     | Name of the resource.
| provider | The purpose of the variable.
| type     | The resource type, e.g. `aws_db_instance`.
|====

All properties of the provider resource are added as properties.
